I am going to call to order the town of
Andover Board of Selectmen regular
meeting for Monday, June 8th, 2026 at 7
o'clock. Our first order of business is
the pledge of allegiance. I pledge
allegiance to the flag of the United
States of America,
>> republic for which it stands, one nation
under God, indivisible, with liberty,
justice for all. Okay, we're going to go
on to um public speak
and we're going to start with Jerry
Kerme.
>> Can you hear me uh now, Jeff?
>> Yep.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm on a computer that's not I've never
touched before. I just I just want to
say I I just want to share a few
observations
and this applies to the budget
and uh I would like to urge people to
vote in favor of this budget that's out
there right now. Um
I've lived in Andover since 2005
and every year this budget thing comes
and divides people, splits us apart.
Actually, it blows us apart. And I think
it's wrong that this should happen every
year in this way. Um,
the BOE and the superintendent and the
BOE chair, you can usually bet that
they're going to be accused of a lack of
transparency that goes every year. And
the other part of this is is that the
questions that are asked are asked the
same over and over and over and over
again. and the answers are all the same
over and over and over again. And it it
ends up taking a lot of people's time
and dividing people. Um there there
can't and shouldn't be a double standard
for the BOE and the town. uh
requirements for example that employee
contracts are
you need to be posted on the website and
uh you can't require it for one board
and not the other board. Uh we should be
acting in a united way. Um
the school and the town benefit together
or they get destroyed together. I want
to see our town ex if you tell me the
the border needs something, I'm in favor
of it. If you tell me the town needs a
new snow plow or it needs a new low new
lawn mower to do the work, I'm all for
it. I want my town to get everything it
needs, not just for the school, but also
for the town. And I realize that we are
all going to benefit together or we're
going to all get destroyed together. And
I hope it's not that we're destroyed
together. Um
during the disagreements,
all of a sudden the behaviors
degenerate.
There is a lack of ethical behavior.
People segregate themselves onto two
sides. You're either in favor of of the
board of education or you're not. You're
against it. You're in favor of the town
or you're against it. Um that can happen
and shouldn't happen. Um, people become
mean, uh, they lack kindness and, uh, it
pulls us apart and I I don't want to see
that happen to our town. Um, school and
the town have to work as one. We have to
find a way that we can get together
without taking things personally,
without having our our behaviors getting
nasty. And I think it needs to end and
we need to put our hands together and
try to solve the problems that we have
and to make sure that we give our school
as well as our town everything they need
to be successful and at the top of the
pile. And that's it. And that's all I
ask of you is that you approve this next
budget so that we do not destroy our
school district. Thank you.
>> Okay, Jerry. Thank you. And since Jerry
is the nicest person in this town, I
gave him some extra time. So, if
everybody could please keep their
comments to two minutes so we could
actually get through this. It would be
appreciated. All right.
>> Um Diane Grer,
>> my comment short,
>> which is hard for me. Um, but I just
wanted to say that I was very saddened
um to to read about the um
resignation of Tess from the senior
center um as senior center director. Um
this is yet another great loss for
Andover. We lost Eric Anderson, that was
a big loss. Jay Tuttle, um multiple
treasurers. Um, and I guess my
rhetorical questions to the board of
selectment is what is wrong with you?
What are you doing? And how could you
let this happen? To me, it it makes my
head spin. So, those are basically the
questions. Short and sweet. And um I
hope you guys can figure this out. Thank
you.
>> Yep. No problem. Um Jesse Person,
I'm good for now. Thank you very much.
Bill Penn.
Um, actually my my thoughts kind of
mirror Diane Diane Gren with a couple uh
exceptions other than I don't know if
you guys do exit interviews or talking
to people or have an understanding of
why all these people leave, but um I
think that's something that really needs
to be evaluated and understood because
losing people repeatedly just cost the
town more money and sometimes, you know,
you just pay a little bit more to keep
somebody to stay. you don't lose all
that money, you don't lose money,
inefficiencies and having to repeat
repeat things over and the like. So, um,
other than that, I'm listening for any
other topics. Thank you for your time.
Good day.
>> Justin Barrell.
Yeah, I'm just uh here to talk about the
uh Andover Rec Commission's recent
decision to uh turn over control of the
Andover Youth Basketball Association to
Hein. Um I'd like to ask for the board
to review that and put a pause on
anything currently happening and in the
works until it can be at least brought
to a formal discussion in front of
the people who put time and effort into
making that league. uh the coaches, the
parents, anybody associated in that in
that community.
So that is all.
>> Okay. Thank you. Um Eric Latesca.
>> Yeah, good uh good sequencing there,
Jeeoff. I'm here for the same reason. I
I really want to call out the rec
commission for the way that they went
about this decision. Um it was done
without any consultation
uh of any of the stakeholders in the
program. Everybody who is seriously
involved with it from a coaching
perspective or parents that volunteer
their time too um has issues with the
decision and I think would have
appreciated to be a part of the the
conversation in the planning. Um, so I'm
I mean I'm objecting mostly to the
process by which this decision was uh
was arrived at, but also, you know,
there are specific problems that a lot
of us have that we'd love an opportunity
to talk through. Um, and that obviously
is probably a conversation to have with
the commission, but because there wasn't
communication in advance of a vote on on
that matter, um, we didn't have that
opportunity. So, we're here uh you know
stating our our viewpoint and doing it
in a in a forum that actually you know
posts minutes on on the internet so that
people can see it. Seems like the rec
commission has sort of sealed itself off
a little bit from the public uh in that
regard. So, thank you for your time.
>> Okay. Um Ed Sriley or Dr. Ed Sriley.
>> Hi. Well, I'm here with my son David.
We're just catching up with the town
happenings. Uh um it's Yeah, I'd like to
u reinforce what Diane said. Uh we got
to stop the revolving door, folks. It's
very tough to to have some consistency
in this town. We got to get things done.
And I volunteered for 35 years in this
town to uh offer civil engineering
services. Did it for Eric Anderson, did
it for Jay Tuttle and of course I'm
offering to do volunteer work for
engineering services for the two new
managers, town manager and new public
works director. Glad to see we're going
to do some shimming, repair our roads
after this brutal winter. Uh but the
point is is we got to stop the revolving
door, so let's all try to work together.
Dave, any comment?
>> Just listening and observing. Thanks.
>> Thank you. Uh Stephen King,
>> I wanted to thank you for the update
today and uh nice to see light at the
end of the tunnel after three years and
two months.
>> Marcy Miner.
>> Hi. Uh yeah, I'm uh I'm concerned with
uh yes, the revolving door. This is um
this is a it's getting pretty bad and
it's always been bad and you know I've
been suggesting that we have a high
human resource person and I really think
that we could probably hire someone 5 to
10 hours a week. Uh and it could be
anybody really. I mean it's something a
bis successful business person could do.
I mean I could do it. So, you know,
there's any people I'm not interested,
but I mean there's just it even if we
took um 7 to $10,000 for a year to have
somebody come in once a week and help
people, you know, uh with their reviews
to find out, you know, how things are
going, tell them they're doing a good
job. Clearly, you guys, you know, you do
a lot and you're basically a volunteer
board and you really need help and I'm
asking, I'm imploring you to add to the
agenda, the discussion about hiring
somebody part-time to help you with this
situation. Thank you.
Uh, iPhone 11.
>> Okay. Melissa Latesca.
>> Hi. Um, I am also calling to voice a
concern about the way that um, the rec
commission has managed the Andover youth
basketball program. There has been a
lack of transparency and communication
to families and volunteers of the
program. minutes aren't up to date
online. A major decision to turn control
of our program to Hebrin wasn't
consulted with anyone outside the room
that it happened. For a townrun program
that's supposed to promote community and
togetherness, this just feels really
counterproductive. I also have questions
about the money that was raised to
benefit the Andover Youth Basketball
Program. What happens to that money if
the program no longer exists? I hope
that a decision that impacts dozens of
students, families, and volunteers would
include those said families and
volunteers. Um, on another note, I also
want to say that I highly agree with
Jerry and all of his words and I really
appreciate his unifying message.
>> Okay. Uh, Lisa's iPad, I'm assuming
that's the treasurer.
>> Yes, it's me. Just listening. Thank you.
>> Okay. Uh, Brienne Lindsi.
>> Hi. I wanted to kind of I didn't get to
to join the June 2nd uh meeting, but I
did watch it. And I just wanted to say
that uh I'm very disappointed in your
behavior. And um my husband and I had to
have some really tough conversations
with my 10-year-old daughter when she
came home the day after and asked if
some of her favorite subjects were going
to be going away. Um [clears throat]
I would urge everybody to vote for this
budget. I um you know it's really sad
that I went online and started looking
at magnet schools because I'm you know
you get what you pay for and I feel like
we're not really seeing the results of
that right now as a as a community
member. You know I also faced a 50%
increase in my insurance premiums this
year. So I understand what the town is
facing and what the board of ed is
facing and for us not to
>> in progress
>> going to have to face the same things as
taxpayers is unreasonable. So again I
urge everybody to
to pass the budget as it is right now.
But I'm disappointed in in how far we've
we've rolled back.
>> Okay. Liz Lopez,
>> I don't have anything right right at
this moment. Thank you.
>> Okay, Elaine Bukart.
>> Hi. I just I I'm on um the bandwagon
with um Diane Grineer and and Bill Penn
uh when it comes to um the board not
being able to come to a contractual
agreement with Tess Grouse who has been
an amazing um director of our community
and senior center. I mean, I'm chairman
of the Commission on Aging and we are
the COA is so happy with all the things
that have been done, all the um programs
that have been introduced. The energy
that test brings to the job has been so
positive for the town and the seniors
and the community. It's just a shame
that uh you weren't able to come to a
contractual agreement. Um that's it.
Just wanted to put in my two cents.
Thanks,
>> Sharon St. Rock.
I uh in the interest of time, I won't
restate what others have stated, but I
will say that I do fully um support uh
Mr. Cormet's comments and Brienne. Um
also, I would like to support the
comments uh of the Latuscas as it
relates to the basketball program. I was
shocked to learn that uh that's no
longer going to exist. So, I would have
loved to have taken part um in that
decision or been informed of that
decision. Um, lastly, I understand I
know the board of ed had been waiting
for some funds to be transferred from
the town. It sounds like that did happen
on Friday, but I understand that uh the
delay was potentially caused because our
accounts were frozen. And I just love to
know, I don't know if that's on the
agenda when it comes to the um the
financial section, but I would love a
little more information about that
because I know we've had um some issues
with fraud in the past and I'd love to
know if that was a concern again because
it was my understanding that uh we had
been working on that um you know the
because we've had some fraud in the past
and so if that is again the case um I'd
[clears throat] just love to know how
that's being addressed so we can uh
prevent that from continuing. Thanks.
Joanne Heert.
>> Hi there. With all due respect to
everyone that said things, I just want
to say that I have no problem with open
discussions about budgets and possible
cuts. I think [clears throat]
all towns are going through this, you
know, process. We all in our daily lives
and our homes have had to make cuts, you
know, to to afford things that we want
to afford. Um, as long as we do it with
respect, um, I have no problem with it.
you know, we like ideas to come forward
and I think it's smart to ask for
verification when we talk transparency.
I just want to say to Jerry, and he
knows me well, um, I have no problem
with asking for just verification of big
line totals that are maybe over $2
million just so that people can add them
up. Um, nobody's name, nobody's, you
know, personal identification, but just
kind of verification. we found, you
know, $40,000 worth of errors in the
past. So, that being said there, um I am
really sad to hear that Tess has
resigned as well. I know that there's
been a lot that she and everyone in town
has gone through her process, but I
don't also pretend to know what happened
behind closed doors or which side
couldn't come to an agreement. So I hope
moving forward that the town does take
time to update their policy book and you
know you're coming on contracts that
have been spoken about just to kind of
have them mirror mirror each other in
some way and wishing everyone well.
Thanks.
>> Okay. Um test grass
>> I'm all set for this time.
>> Okay.
are is there going to be more discussion
about my resignation later?
>> Yes,
>> we will.
>> Thank you.
>> All right.
>> And we have public speak at the end as
well. Uh Kim Haw is I just let in. So,
is Kim Haw even on here? I don't see
her.
Oh, page two. Oh my god. I got page. I'm
sorry everybody on page two. Let's uh
get to you. Uh Kimberly Persan.
>> I'm all set right now. Thank you.
>> All right. Maria Tolman,
we'll come back to you. Maria Fired
tablet.
All right. We'll come back to you as
well. Uh Leanne Hutchinson or Lee
Hutchinson.
Are the rest of you hearing me when I
ask these people? I just want to make
sure. Okay. Uh Louise Goodwin.
>> Yeah. Hi. Um, I just want to in regards
to the budget situation, I just want to
make sure that people understand that in
the future, very near future, next year,
we're going to be having a an
reassessment of our homes, which most
likely will be increases. So, we have to
kind of keep that in mind when we're
voting for this budget because one high
increase
after another high increase might
actually cause people to leave town. So,
that's my two cents. Thank you.
>> Dr. Patrice Kelly.
>> I'm set for now. Thank you.
>> Okay. Ellen Bernard.
>> Hi. I'm really disappointed that you
guys were unable to give Tess a
contract. Not an at will, but a
contract. She's done so much for the
seniors. The seniors, they only get out
perhaps once a week. Now, what's going
to happen? Who's going to take care of
them? Extremely disappointed in you
guys.
>> Kimberly Haw,
Kim, you're on mute if you can't get to
us.
All right. Um, is there anyone else that
I missed
public speak? If you'd like to speak,
unmute yourselves and we'll go one at a
time.
Okay, if no one is ready, we do have
public speak after this. Um,
uh, before we get to additions and
deletions, I I do want to sit there and
say something about Tessa's contract so
everybody understands the situation and
how it unfolded. Um
Tess and I had been working on a
contract and um we had um
there was some debate over a clause
within the contract just so everybody
understands this and there were two
different versions of that clause for
termination
that were out there and before those two
clauses were decided as to which clause
was going to be presented to TZ. TZ saw
the version of the contract with an
atill with an atwill clause on it.
Understandably, Tess was upset, but this
just so everybody understands, we
haven't voted on this contract, and it
was not something that honestly should
have gotten this far um before Tess saw
that clause. And Tess has every right to
be upset about that clause and and in
her current situation and discussion,
she wouldn't accept that contract with
that clause. And that's what
negotiations are all about. So, um,
I'll take responsibility for Tess seeing
that contract, but that was not what was
supposed to happen. And Tess, no, I get
it. No. Um,
but we have to sit there and make some
decisions as we move forward related to
that. So, I wanted everybody to
understand that it wasn't as if we
negotiated with Tess and then Tess, you
know, we we only got to one answer. It
was that we had uh a clause that certain
members of the board wanted to see in
place and that clause might have been
too ownorous for test, but we never had
a chance to really go back and forth
other than some emails with members of
the board of selectman as to which
clause that they might consider. So just
just letting you know, right? So, this
is not a um uh
you know, we made some mistakes
internally and we have to sit there and
and attempt to correct them. And if we
can correct them tonight, we will. All
right, just so everybody gets it. Um so,
we're now on to item three, additions
and deletions. Um
and I I have to go back one step. Uh and
Jerry and the people at the beginning of
public speak, I apologize. I had not
started recording until I was told by
one of the members in the audience that
I might not have hit the button to
record. So, I don't think I got to
record until um after Mr. King somewhere
in that ballpark. So, I apologize.
Um
additions and deletions. I would like to
add um
9A. So the first thing that we talk
about uh the community center and senior
center director contract I would like to
put up to the uh
front of the new business section. Um
and I would also like to add um
under
9n
the Andover youth basketball
program.
Anyone else have anything else that they
would like to sit there and put on the
agenda?
>> I was wondering about the uh check
signers because now that we have uh town
administrator, we should be changing the
check signers that we had put in as
temporary.
>> Um we'll sit there and and do that one.
Uh
900 check signers. We'll have a
discussion on check signers and the
current status of our banking and also
give us an opportunity to talk about
Miss St. Rock's request about fraud.
>> So we'll call that um
banking banking issues.
That okay?
>> Yes.
>> Banking issues.
Okay. Jeff, I was wondering if we can
get an update on the uh uh the the
assistant for the community center.
>> Uh that's actually on the agenda.
>> Okay.
>> Um
>> I must have missed it. Sorry, my
>> It might not It might not be under the
on the agenda. It's in the um it's in
the administrator's report,
>> but do we want to discuss it? Is there a
preferred candidate that we need to make
a motion on?
Um, let's discuss the contract and then
I mean we have an issue of of who and
when and how we go about this because we
don't know where we're going to be
within the director or what our roles
would be moving forward. Jeff, if
>> understood understood.
>> Okay. Um, Ann, do you have anything
else?
Um
is Stephen King had asked about being
added to the agenda. Is he satisfied
with what has been done or do we need to
add?
>> He said it in public speak.
>> Okay.
I just wanted to make sure about that.
>> Yep.
>> I'm good. Thank you very much.
>> Great.
>> Uh Carol Lee, you got anything you want
to add?
No. Uh Jeff Murray, you got anything you
want to add other than that other item?
Scott, anything?
>> Good. Thank you.
>> Okay. Um, so I'd like to make a motion
that we add uh 9A um senior uh center or
community senior center uh uh director
contract discussion um and
uh 9n Andover discussion and we'll go
discussion and action on andover youth
basketball and 90
uh bank uh action and discussion on
banking issues.
>> I'll second that, Jeff.
>> Second that. All the All those in favor?
I
>> All right.
>> Okay. Five. Nothing.
Okay. 5 Z. All right. So, let's move on.
Let's go down the list. Um
um item four, board and commission
presentations. Uh Matt, we don't have
any board and commission presentations
that I saw in the packet. Right. Um,
five, appointments. I don't believe we
have any appointments uh to make at this
point in time.
>> Item six, um
um
well, we'll discuss the other item
after. We have to have a special
meeting. I'm sorry. We that's just
popped into my head. We have to have a
special meeting on the 17th related to
the budget potentially. Um item uh six,
resignations. Uh the Andover community
senior center director Tesc Grass has
submitted a a resignation. Uh I would
like to take no action on this tonight
um until we can sit there and get a
final uh decision as to where we're at u
with the contract since there was really
never any votes taken in public on the
contract. Um,
so
everyone can read Tessa's resignation.
It's out there. So you have it. It's
available. Um, it's available on
Facebook as well as in our packet. So u
we'll sit there and and move to item
seven. So we're going to move Matt to
your um to the town administrator uh
report.
>> Yes. Quick leave. Uh I did submit the
items for for uh
for your consideration. I'm uh
continuing to familiarize myself with
the town staff. I've been attending the
uh economic development committee re
meetings as well as attending the
community center lunchons. Uh still
continuing to meet uh with different uh
elected and appointed officials. Uh
happy to report that uh we do have a new
uh assistant treasure who has started
with the finance department. We have uh
moved forward with uh the candidate for
the wetlands agent for the uh inland
wetlands.
Uh we do have applications in for the
assistant community center uh
coordinator, but we also have a posting
ready for a new uh buildings custodian
for town hall library and community
center.
Well, we did receive notice from the
transfer station. It's headed of his
imminent departure in the fall.
>> I'm sorry.
>> Go ahead.
>> I'm sorry, but I I want to ask a
question about something. It said,
"Haven't we posted the Has that not been
posted in the paper for the new uh
custodian?"
>> Uh, it may have. I'd have to check and
see. I know that uh Kate was working on
that.
I'm fairly certain if it's on the
website that it was sent to the uh
>> that that
needs to get done immediately. That
should have been done after our last
meeting.
>> Okay, keep going.
Uh just uh I guess there's no real
update that the Longill Bridge project,
we're still waiting for Eversource to
finally move some of the wires so they
can continue, but they are in the
process of uh taking out the bridge,
the diesel system fuel. We've uh
proceeded with a purchase order for the
low best responsive and responsible
quote.
Uh we did get uh a few people that did
uh inquire about that, but uh nobody was
uh anxious to bid on that. So we're
happy with who we've picked and uh we
hope that it should be moving forward in
the next weeks. Um do you have a
timeline on that? They said uh they're
thinking with the summer here it should
once it should be six to eight weeks
on the uh I know that everyone's here
about the authorized signatory. I think
we're going to be talking about that
later. Um we do have a town audit going
to be coming before the finance
committee July.
Uh we've had some uh firewall
installation with the it that was done
prior to any any of the issues that we
we had had here as far as possible
fishing attempts. Uh but we can talk
about those as well if you want to. Uh
we did have a frog meeting at the
meeting. I did talk with the Bolton's
mayor, the Marboro town manager, the
Columbia town administrator, some of our
neighbors. We talked at the last meeting
about trying to have like a joint select
board meeting of all those. Uh we've
started the idea. I think that we're
going to start with us getting together
to kind of figure things out and then
we'll move on to hopefully to get the uh
select boards from those towns. So I
think it's a good start. It was nice to
meet with them and talk to them. So uh I
look forward to working with them and
any other regional type issues that we
may have. So, uh, uh, the conclusion of
the, uh, NECOG animal control case has
come to I did, uh, send the, uh,
notice of that out to you this weekend.
Uh, we still got some upcoming event,
the Declaration of Independence, uh,
statewide recital. And, uh, just, uh,
we've gotten another complaint about
speeding on Bear Swamp Road. Uh there
was a complaint by a Hop River resident
regarding uh the excessive detour and
wants to know what the town is doing to
possibly reimburse uh the cost of uh
gasoline for driving all the way around.
I said I would bring it to the select
board and uh we did have a complaint by
every six uh resident about some smoke
damage from one of the neighbors wood
stove and uh yeah as I previously
mentioned that uh America 250th will be
coming up and it's uh Declaration of
Independence reading. Uh, I have not
moved anywhere on that. I know that
first we may have had some ideas. So, I
think it's we have a couple weeks left
so we can try and figure that out.
Supposed to be on July 8th is the date
of the brief. So, I'll happy to answer
any questions.
Okay. Um,
I' I'd like to just go through your your
list of things that may not have been
touched on. So 2V inland wetlands agent.
>> Yes.
>> What's your status with the inlands
wetland agent? Where are we
>> that uh for the in we had got the
request from uh the you the first black
man and Scott to go ahead move forward
with the hiring of the the person that's
from Colombia of the inland wetland
agent pardon the town Savannah Kitchen.
So that she was going to meet with
tomorrow night with the uh with the
inland wetlands board for the first
time. So
>> So just so I understand, have we hired
her?
>> Yeah, we moved forward with that because
I know that the we have something we put
on the agenda for select board approval,
but I was told that it was already
something to move forward with.
>> Well, that a problem. There's a there's
a difference between when you you have
no other uh potential candidates and
someone that's willing to do the job,
you should move forward with them, but
you you've got to come back with a
number that we're hiring that individual
at and then bring it to the board so
that we can approve it.
>> Okay.
>> All right. So, um please bring that back
for the next cycle so that that can get
done. Her name, what the rate is, and
where we're at with her. Okay. Um,
>> Jeff, I'd like to
uh So, are we going to wait till next
month to actually hire this person?
>> Well, he already hired him.
>> Okay.
>> He He's got to give us the information
on it.
>> Mhm.
>> Good. I'm I'm glad he did.
[laughter]
>> I'm glad he did, too. But, you know,
>> let's uh
>> as we go through these, we need to sit
there and say, "Okay, this is the person
we're hiring. this this is within the
budget parameters and this is where
we're moving forward and I'm assuming
all those things are all set. I'm
assuming she's gotten set up with the
accounting and the treasur's office and
she's all good to go, which I'm
extremely happy that we have somebody
that position because um you know, just
as a side note, I got I got a um I got a
letter I did not receive it by email,
but I got a letter today from the
building um
building and zoning enforcement officer
that's at the town hall, and he has a
lot of projects that he sees coming down
the road that are potentially going to
uh require some additional outside
services that are being put in front of
the town. So, some new building projects
and u
>> engineering costs.
>> Yeah, engineering's cost. So, planning
and zoning is going to,
you know, as I told him, it's good that
we have two members of our board on
planning and zoning. They can come back
and report to us as to what is going on
there. but he did provide me a letter
stating that he believes he's going to
need some additional outside services to
assist in these projects. Um, my
response to him, Scott, and I will tell
you, is why are we not billing the
applicants appropriately to cover our
costs if they're going to ask us to sit
there and consider doing larger
projects, you know, such as um,
>> that's and that's what Ethan Wayne is
getting at. Those costs should be
>> by the applicant, paid by the applicant,
>> paid by the applicant. And we have to do
a better job of getting the applicant
who's looking to do the projects within
our town to cover all those costs as
opposed to the residents of the
taxpayers.
>> So, that's something we got to look at
doing. Um, that was just brought to my
attention today when I was in the
office. So, we'll go from there. Um,
uh, the custodian definitely needs to
sit there and get done. You also have a
2E um a notice on uh transfer station
attendant of imminent departure. So we
need to sit there and work on that. That
is related so everybody understands that
to Dominic and to Dominic's concern
about the winter and things that are
required uh of him would be required of
him in the winter. So I believe Matt
Dominic's plan is to stay through the
summer and the fall. Yes, he's thinking
October and uh he even said afterwards,
you know, he'd still be able, you know,
fill in from time to time. He's just uh
averse to the cold weather.
>> Yeah, I think he was averse to shoveling
um based upon his current physical
limitations. So, that's something that
we have to plan for. So, we need to get
on top of that. And that also means that
if somebody knows of somebody that uh
would potentially consider uh the job,
you know, we should be bringing them
forward as soon as possible.
[sighs]
Okay. Um
Jeeoff, on that note, I was talking to
Carol earlier and we she mentioned I
mean, why can't we have public works
help to clear the the transfer station?
And I mean, it's not really Dominic's
job to be shoveling.
>> I mean, public works does everything
else. And if it's a Wednesday and we
have a snow, we're getting snow, they
just treat that as a priority and just
clear it.
>> If we're los an employee over shoveling,
it's kind of
>> well, you know, there's going to be some
parts of it that he's going to have to
do when he's there. But I have no
problem Jeff asking public works to sit
there and do more related to that. So we
can sit
>> Yeah. I'm just add work something out
that would make it, you know, make it a
little easier for him then.
>> Yeah. I mean, I know they go up there at
least on Wednesdays to to tamp down the
containers. I mean, They might go up
there on Tuesdays, but yes, we can sit
there and work through that. Um to sit
there and see if we can have public
works do some of that uh cleanup. Um
>> thank you.
>> Yeah. Um
Longill
and and Scott, just tell me if I'm
wrong. Isn't it Frontier? [snorts]
Matt said Eversource that has the line
problems. Isn't this a Frontier problem
or is this Eversource really moving the
the line from one pole to another? Both
of them. Both of them. Okay. Okay.
>> Techn technically and I guess the issue
is that the live wires from Eversource
are the ones they cannot get within 15
or 20 feet of. They said they could work
around the frontier ones, but it's the
Eversource ones that slow down.
>> Isn't ever Isn't Frontier responsible
for the poles?
>> The poles have already been Yeah, the
poles have all been moved.
>> Poles are moved. They have to tighten up
the wires.
>> Okay. Okay. So, let's sit there. I mean,
uh, I know that, um,
Matt, you told me that the engineering
firm that's responsible for this project
is really communicating and reaching out
to these guys on a daily basis.
>> Yes. And I've reached out for the our
contact as well.
>> Okay.
>> And they
>> daily Jeff.
>> Yeah.
>> And talk to Allen about this this stuff.
>> Um, um, Matt, you also skipped over item
four, Veterans Field Project. So, Scott,
I know that you're more engaged in that.
Why don't you give everybody an update
on the the project?
>> Um, last Friday the playground was
completely finished. It's all good. The
poles, all the poles, all the
attachments have been cemented. All the
uh mulch was put down. The lighting on
and everywhere has been put in so that
it's a fully lit facility.
The pickle ball courts have been uh and
and it's all fenced. The playground is
all fenced. The pickle ball courts have
been fenced. 10 foot high fence that's
all lit.
Um it's been the second uh grade of uh
asphalt have been put on. They were
supposed to start the uh coloring on the
porch today, but they didn't show up.
Um the grass is green down there,
believe it or not. that uh rain we had
the other night really helped popped it
out. It's it's all green down there.
Looks very nice. Um the pavilion
when I left today, the frame of the
pavilion was up. Hopefully they'll have
that done this week. It's a a beautiful
wood post and beam building. It's going
to have a metal roof on it. The uh shed
is completed around the electrical panel
there. There's an electric panel in
there and now it's all protected by a
shed. Um the road going in is complete.
Um public works has to finish the
driveway there
and um that that's about it. That it's
come along really well and it's a a huge
asset to the town. People won't believe
it when they go walk down there and see
that facility down there. How nice it
is.
What's the expected what would you give
as an expected completion date?
Well,
>> the the playground is done. The pickle
ball courts they they said that after
they finish painting and you got to wait
like a week for the pickle ball courts
to be done. And I would expect that the
um pavilion will be done this week.
>> Okay. So, you would sit there and say by
um July 4th that
>> could it could be done? Yeah.
>> Okay. All right, that's great.
Um, item five, just because I want to
sit there and talk about it. um uh six
weeks and we've we've
well does the board have any problem
with us doing this that I mean listen we
need the
pump down there back up and running
because we're having some problems with
um accounting for
diesel um
the month of April when this happened u
March when did this start Matt
I I was here so it had to be after.
>> It had to be April.
>> April.
>> So, April is a little bit of an estimate
that's going to have to happen based
upon uh starting diesel gallons, ending
diesel gallons. So, we have to go
through that. That's going to have to be
something that we work together with uh
everybody that participates and uses
that that u diesel. Um but we need that
in place. um
we should be able to fit that within our
current uh budget to sit there and get
that done. Um
but unless somebody has a real problem
with moving forward with that um that
pump company and two things so in
talking to Eric uh Eric was that all of
the local uh public works that have gone
and done pumps recently have used that.
It's almost as if that company is uh the
norththeast part of the state
entity that deals with all the public
works groups on pumps and there's
another one in the south and um
uh
there's not a lot of other opportunities
to quote. So Jeff, unless you have some
other thing other opportunities that you
can sit there and go out and look and
quote, um I'd like to make sure that he
gets that done and moved forward.
No, that's a specialty item as like Matt
had said. It's it's it's really hard to
find and it's like it's explosion proof
wiring. So, it's gonna we're going to
have to really keep an eye on that when
it get the installation. Um I'd like to
take a look at it when we're done just
make sure everything's up to code.
>> Okay. All right. As long as we don't
have any problems there.
>> So, so Jeff, so so am I understanding
that we're good to go with this?
Everybody's good to go. We're putting
this forward.
>> Yeah. I mean, we we have to I we had
there's limited contractors for that
that
>> I No, I know that there's only one. He's
down in Franklin. I I I know the guy.
>> But anyways, Jeff Maguire, we're good to
finish this finally.
>> Um I mean, if we want to take a vote and
put it all in the record, I'm okay with
>> I'd like to Yeah, I'd like to finalize
it to get this done. It's been two
years, three years.
>> Matt, um do you have the number on that
project?
>> Yeah. 20,000. Let's see.
>> Okay.
>> It was in the last packet. That was the
piece.
>> Okay. So, then I'll make a motion that
we um we move forward with and give me
the name of the contractor.
>> Fuel Service Systems.
I make a motion that we move forward
with fuel service systems on the um pump
uh mechanism and and [clears throat]
the pump for diesel at Department of
Public Works and to not exceed $30,000
in total spending.
>> I'll second that, Jeff.
>> Okay. Uh any further discussion on it?
Can how do you vote?
>> I
>> Carol
>> Jeff Murray
>> I
>> Scott Person
>> Jeff Magcguire I so five nothing.
>> Okay just everybody knows that's a re
that's a very reasonable number for that
application. So,
>> um,
on item seven, Matt, you talk about
search for new grants. Can you give us
anything that that has come up that
you've identified that we might be able
to sit there and take advantage of?
>> At this time, there's a bunch of them
that are going to be opening in uh, I
think in July. I'm trying to think off
the top of my head which ones they are.
I had them written down.
I think they they were a lot of the same
ones that are out there. And in fact, I
mentioned to a few at the uh when I went
to the Crag meeting, in fact, Matt Hart
was also there saying that, you know, if
there's anything we can do regionally
with any of the other towns, they'd be
happy to and there may be some exploring
some of those grants as well. Um I think
there was also a library one that was
available. But yeah, we're looking
through, you know, everything that we
currently have and to, you know, re up
everything that we looking for
everything we can. I'll have a
exact list for next meeting.
>> And then
could I ask them something, Jeff?
>> Yeah, go ahead,
>> Matt. So, um I would like to see some
kind of spreadsheet or something put
together with all the grants that we
have going right now, the status of
them,
what what kind of uh money is owed the
town, what kind of money has been paid
out to the town,
when when we need to uh get in touch
with the the next uh people that are
involved
with this. um all the connections, all
the telephone numbers, everybody that's
involved with it so that we can keep
track of this a little bit better. Right
now, it was, you know, it was always
just Eric. We didn't have to worry about
it. Now, seems like we have to really be
involved with this.
I'd like to see it all together. So, we
we we know what we're doing here.
>> Okay. Um and item nine, you just briefed
over that. that is something that we're
going to have to get together. So, the
the contract for a public works is is is
>> um needs to get uh negotiated. That's
something that all the members of the
board should sit there and touch base
with Matt just to understand where the
direction of that is going. And um
uh but yes, that all needs to get done
as well. So, Matt and I discussed it
this morning. We're gonna sit there and
and try to have a meeting with Zach and
because I believe Zach is the union rep
for the
>> Steuart. Yes,
>> the Stewart. Okay. Um we'll sit there
and try to sit there and move that
through and then get back to the rest of
the members of the board so we can get
that done. Um,
we all got the information on the Crag
um on the um not the CROG meeting but on
well it's later in the it's later forget
it control case the legal thing that's
also later in the agenda. We'll talk
about it there. All right. Anybody have
any other questions for Matt on his um
his report?
Okay. Um,
the other thing that Matt has here on
his items, you know, he has ABC, so
priorities updates, which he gave us,
the tunnel staff, which he gave us, but
priorities and board of selectment
goals. Um, we each should be sitting
there getting with Matt because
obviously he's brand new and 60 days in
and so he's getting his feet under him.
um we should all be uh trying to meet
with him to sit there and and provide
him some guidance in the direction that
we think we he needs to be taking us and
moving us forward. And then what we can
all do is is Matt can sit there and and
have that communication with us and then
sit there and distill it into a workable
um parameters for him to be able to move
forward with. Um, but each one of us
needs to
get into the office with Matt, talk to
him, talk to him about what's going on
and where their area of expertise is,
and then we can go from there. Right.
>> Okay. Uh, item eight, uh, the
treasurer's report. Um, Lisa,
>> yep. Um before Lisa goes, we had a
question um regarding uh
uh Miss St. Rock asked a question about
the accounts being frozen. Um again, we
had another uh fraud issue. Um
it was identified by the treasurer and
the treasurer's office.
uh the bank put our account on hold
based upon this these transactions.
These were not uh small transactions.
They did not impact the town financially
but they caused an incredible amount of
um
angst and problems that Lisa does not
need to be dealing with. So we are
working with Mnt to try to uh minimize
all future problems. Um
so everybody understands within this
town we have a um
dual authentication on everything that
we do financially. So all of our checks
have to have two signers. All of our
AC's have to have two signers. any wire
that we would potentially do for the
town has to have two authorizations.
So, um, in our discussions with the
bank, it's very,
you know, the bank knows that we're set
up for two authentications on every
transaction and they can't allow
something to go out that has less than
that. And so, um, it was dealt with it.
It was uncomfortable and it did cause us
some problems. uh for a day or two uh
trying to get some things out. We had
some things that the bank bounced on us
that were the lease is dealing with, but
it's a uh it's not an easy thing. We're
kind of stuck in a little vortex with
our banking information being out there
uh on the black market. And and listen,
everybody has to understand, every time
you write out a check, you're giving out
information. And we write out a lot of
checks as a town. So um we're trying to
work with the bank to minimize any
future problems um fraud protection
fraud options that that bank is
providing us
but very difficult and not something
that we need to be dealing with right
now. But Lisa did a great job. It's all
done. Uh the money was moved to the
school. uh all of the money, the money
that they requested from their 2%
lapsing fund, their $92,000,
the $8,000 in their seed grant money
that the state provided, and there was
one other small item that uh was
>> the draft drift funds.
[clears throat]
>> Okay, Lisa, all yours.
>> Um I just want to say um this is like
the first chance I've had to really sit
down and at some point I'll write a
report, but I I'm just not there yet.
Um, we do have a new assistant
treasurer. It's great having someone
else in the office. It's been a lonely
place.
Um, our final our final audit is it is
is done and out there to the board of
select and the board of finance. I did
arrange a meeting in July for them to
come out and do a presentation. Um, they
have a couple recommendations, but it's
complete and I'm starting to work on the
next one. Um, the budget has kept us
busy in the finance office, as you all
know. Um, everybody is busy coming to
the finance office asking about year-end
purchases um because everybody wants to
know what's left in their budget. Um,
I'm trying to pull together a little bit
of a an accounting 101 class um for
department heads so that we can format
some changes and do things as we should
do uh when processing payables. um the
diesel pump that you're speaking of. Um
I in my previous position in another
town, we had that company and they were
very good and the reports I were made so
much quicker. The reports you can pull
from that system. Um and they were very
good to deal with. I you know I just
want to say enough for them. Um
the the I know Jeff has touched on the
fraud issue and I I just want to say it
never ends. Um, I'm I speak to the bank
every day. Every single day, Monday
through Friday, and I'm not supposed to
be here Monday through Friday, but I am
and we talk daily. Um, so I was just
glad I saw what I saw and gave them a
call. Um,
let's see.
I don't know if anybody has any
questions on the two reports, if they
want to ask about either the check
register or the budget to actual or if
you had other questions.
I I had a question about there was a an
AES transfer of $146,000.
>> That's exactly what Jeff was just
talking about. If you add
>> there was 978
>> 975 Yep. and 8430 for seed and then
there was 40,800 for drip money. It's a
it's a grant they get. I didn't ask Jod,
but she asked for it and it did come in.
So if you add those three together,
that's the 147.
Yep.
We do have some um over expenditures,
but um I'm working on to see where
they're they're um where we can do
transfers for those at the end of the
year. Um revenues are on on track. They
might be a little bit over, which is
good this year.
Um,
I mean, I don't know if anybody has
questions about anything else.
The audit was filed. Um, and I did do
the report for fiscal health monitoring
system, FHMS through OPM. So, that's
been taken care of. Um, and I think
that's it unless somebody else has
questions.
I'm sorry I was on I was on mute. Lisa
just there's some reconciling item.
There's some items that are reconciled
this this May. Just where do you see
>> the cats have been reconciled through
April. Um so we're caught up on that. Um
we're just working on May. And as far as
the L accounts go, we're working on
those um to get those taken care of too
and get those reconciled.
>> Okay. Anybody else have any other
questions,
treasurer?
Okay. Um
if there's no other questions, we're
going to move on to um old business.
And
the item that we sat there and uh or
that we added um
9A the uh community and senior center
director contract. Um
all of the members of the board have sat
there and seen um
the contract and also they saw the two
clauses for the um
two clauses for the section regarding um
termination.
So my question is and what I'd like to
ask would
anyone like to I I would actually like
to vote if I if we could unless somebody
has a major problem. I would like to sit
there and and discuss the two clauses
and the reason for the two clauses and
then sit there and have a decision made
by this board if we can. So, one of the
clauses was u requested of the lawyer to
make an atwill employee. An atill
employee is similar to uh what is h
handled in the town employee handbook
and
slightly um it it agrees with the
handbook. The other one uh it was a um
a request
well it had some due um
some just cause issues related to
termination and I'm going to read them
to you if I can find them. Give me one
second.
Jeff Bur, do you have the email that I
sent you uh and the rest of the board
members?
>> Give me one second. I'll try to find it.
Uh, it'll be in my other email when it
have too many emails,
>> Jeff. I mean, the at will one that was
not one that was really supposed to be
written. I mean, that was an error on
>> the labor attorney. Um,
I mean that I had issues with part of
that the first clause, but he just took
that out and put at will in there. I
mean, I'm I think that and I I just I
just wanted this contract to
um align with our personnel policy. And
if we're going to do any special
um
accommodations for tests, we should uh
revise our employee manual or employee
policy manual to reflect that change
because it's really not fair to the
other employees.
to get to make cons to make special
considerations for one employee and not
the rest of the employees. And that is
my concern.
>> I I understand that and we've had this
conversation that when you
>> I just want to let everybody on the the
meeting tonight know that we do have an
employee policy manual and what task
test is asking for contradicts that and
so put it puts us in a difficult
position.
>> Okay. But that's what you do when you do
contracts. You sit there and you're
you're you're if you hire an individual
and they're hired under the terms of and
they have no contract, they're hired
under the terms of the um employee
handbook and the personnel policies.
That's the reality of of what's up. Um,
if you provide someone with a contract,
the contract takes precedent and
priority over the personal handbook and
the and those types of clauses. So in
essence in offering up a contract we are
sitting there saying to uh the
individual in the position that we're
willing to provide you with certain
uh additional benefits and additional
consistent um not consistency but
additional information above and beyond
a normal employee. So in the case of the
senior center director, that's what we
were doing. And again, as I said, I
apologize for that that that document
getting out there um
you know, before,
uh we had the opportunity to discuss it.
Um,
so, um, I found my email and so Jeff, I
I understand what you're saying, but in
in essence in an an employment
agreement, if you're going to write um
clauses and in this case, there's the
section 8 separation from employment and
this is what it was. So the I'm going to
read the
part of the clause that is related to
just cause right. So um section 8 item
one removal by the town the board of
selectment shall not terminate the
employees employment during the term of
this agreement except for just cause.
Just cause shall shall include but not
be limited to the following. A, refusal
to carry out the lawful policies of the
town and directives of the town
administrator.
B, conviction of a felony or other crime
which interferes with her ability to
fulfill her duties. Or C, poor job
performance demonstrated by two or more
disciplinary warnings issued by the town
administrator due to her job
performance. In order to terminate the
employees employment during the term of
this agreement, a majority of the
members of the board of selectmen must
vote in favor of such termination and
the employee shall have an opportunity
to address the board of select before
they make any decision. So that was the
just cause and and I I will read the
other one you know just so everybody
gets it and we can go from there. So,
uh, removal by the town at all times
during the term of this agreement as
well as any agreed upon extension of it,
employees employment with the town shall
be considered at will. And so, the board
of selectmen may decide to terminate
this agreement and employees employment
at any time for any lawful reason with
or without cause or notice. In order to
terminate the employees employment
during the term of the agreement, a
majority of the members of the board of
selectment must vote vote in favor of
such termination.
So,
um
I just think that you know and this
listen I I however the group votes I
mean we did sit there and communicate by
email as to what direction that we were
going. Not everybody reached back out um
um and Tess also communicated with all
the members I believe um related to the
the clause. The clause is um
personally I'd like to make a motion.
I'm gonna just make a motion that I
would like to sit there and
and
write the contract with the just clause
clause and sit there and offer it up to
Tess. Tess may not take it because of
the situation that she's been placed
into, but I would like to at least
be on record that this board was willing
to do the just cause in the contract.
So, I'm going to make a motion that the
board of selectmen re review and approve
the contract with the just clause. uh
just cause termination uh wording
so that we can move the contract forward
before
the end of this fiscal year.
second that Jeff
>> Scott second it further discussion
because now you know we do need to
discuss this because
as I I've said to Jeff Murray I
understand what his his thought is but
in in my view we're doing a contract to
sit there and um keep someone that we
all have said that she has done you know
a good job and we want to make sure that
we have some consistency over there so I
I don't think it's um it's going too far
out of line to have the just clause the
just cause issues there for the benefit
of the employee.
So I don't know how how everybody else
feels. Um I don't know if you even want
to discuss it or we just want to vote on
it.
>> I mean SC Jeff, my only issue is that
line C on the disciplinary. It's just
with the two warnings. It over it over
it goes over what the to what the
personnel policy is. And so why should
we even have a personnel policy if we're
just going to override it and do
whatever we want every time?
>> I'm just playing devil's I'm playing
devil's advocate here. If you wrote a
contract for every every other employee
that we have and we don't have many
directors of departments that don't have
contracts like so if you sat there and
you looked at the assessor he has a
union contract for five hours and he's
in charge of his department. We have a
contract for public works he's in charge
of his department and we have a a
contract for the town administrator.
He's in charge of his department. We
don't have any other contracts for
anyone else. The only other contract
that's out there is the senior senator.
>> Yep. And my and my agreement was and I
said I would I was I would vote for a
contract if it aligned with the town's
personnel policy and I'm going to stand
by that.
>> Okay. And and I I understand that and
but we have other people that need to go
>> Sure.
>> and decide what they're going to do.
>> Did we have a labor attorney
recommendation on one or the other?
>> The labor attorney wrote both clauses.
He and he didn't say which one
would be in the best interest of the
town.
>> Well, he wrote the first one simply
because and you know if you want Carol,
you can speak with him because he wrote
the first one because he understood the
past history that we have with that
contract. So that's how he wrote it. And
then um
uh
I was I you know I communicated with
Jeff Murray and I had Jeff Murray speak
to the labor attorney and then Jeff
Murray through communication with the
labor attorney sat there and Jeff wanted
to align it with personnel policies and
that's how the labor attorney wrote that
clause out you know at will.
And again, I sit there and I go back to
the same thing. This shouldn't be here.
I'm just telling the public, this is a
bad situation. I totally get it. It's
it's and it's bad situation from Tess.
It shouldn't be here. The board should
have been able to sit there and work
this out
>> and and be it may not have worked out
all the way, you know, I I don't know,
but that's why we need to vote on this.
So, Carol, the labor attorney, reviewed
the contract. He wrote the first clause
for just cause and then in discussions
after that, he wrote the at will clause.
So, there was two termination clauses in
the given contract. Like there was one
there was Yeah, he wrote both of them.
So, we'll just go from there.
>> It was just a shame that it was such a
delay. This should have been done at our
April meeting. It should have been sent
to the labor attorney so that we would
have had time to review it in May rather
than it being pushed all the way to
June.
>> And it was it was just kind of a rush
thing. That's that's all I'm saying.
>> Well, we would have gotten it done we
would have gotten it done in the month
of May if we didn't have this problem
blow up.
Um, Tess wants to speak. Tess, can I get
the vote done on this beforehand? Well,
Tess, go ahead and speak.
>> Let her speak. Let her speak.
>> Yep. Go ahead, Tess.
>> I appreciate that. I I just want to
clarify a couple things. Um, when I was
wrongfully terminated by three of the
board of selectman members, I hired the
attorney and we presented a um we
presented to the board of selectmen uh
why it was wrong to do so. Um
when I came back in September,
I had sent the board
a draft contract and Carol, I believe at
that time you had mentioned that the
employee handbook needed to be updated
as well as roles and responsibilities
for each uh different uh department and
um positions in town. And so I
your what I'm hearing you say is that
this was rushed. It wasn't rushed. It
has nothing has changed since September.
And so just to clarify
when uh recently
I sent out another draft to the board
and that was sent to the attorney, the
labor attorney, and he made revisions.
And then there were more revisions. And
then correct me if I'm wrong. Um well,
let me just back up. I at that point
called members of the board of selectmen
to see where they were. Um, and
Jeff Murray had contacted, as you said,
uh, Jeff Maguire had contacted the labor
attorney and then it was changed to an
atill contract. And so my question is,
why would anyone sign a contract when
one you were wrongfully terminated once
before and now you can with three votes
now you can fire me without any cause
whatsoever. So that does not provide any
consistency in
only for me but for the drivers for the
seniors for anybody that is associated
with the community and senior center
that is totally unfair. So Jeff McMurray
while you're saying one thing you're not
giving the full truth of what happened.
>> Well listen Tess and I and I and I got
to I got to sit there and say this
shouldn't be here.
>> Yep. because you have to understand this
shouldn't be here, but we're here. So,
we got to deal with it as it is. So, I'm
just sitting there saying I'm just
sitting there saying to to you and to
the other board members, listen, the
draft of the contract that you had Yes.
went to the Let's just go through the
process. Went to the Went to the Went to
the labor attorney.
>> Yep.
>> The labor attorney then made
adjustments. I then made adjustments to
what the labor attorney did. Yep. Right.
Because I told just so just so everybody
understands, I went back to the labor
attorney and I said we could not do a
four-fifths vote. That will not that
will definitely not work. The just cause
clauses were in there, but it was not a
four-fifths vote. It was a 3 to2 vote, a
majority vote,
>> right? That that got changed.
>> Then the um and then I provided that
contract to Jeff Murray. Jeff Murray sat
there and asked the attorney to make an
adjustment to that clause and then what
should have happened is those two
clauses should have come in front of the
board of selectment probably in
executive session and we should have
dealt with this
>> right but in the meantime when I
>> what happened
>> what when in the meantime I did speak
with other members of the board and Jeff
Murray was adamant about a no contract
he he said
>> an out contract I
an atill contract and and I spoke with
an and she was not for an atwill
contract. She said that correct me if
I'm wrong an Atwill contracts are for
McDonald's employees and that I am not.
And so then then then it was uh um
then two days later once everybody got
two contracts then Ann you changed your
mind. You did a 180 and you completely
changed your mind
>> and and then I was not I I I was an at
will employee in your mind.
Well,
>> so then you three again
>> very thing and what I' I'd like to say
>> I'd like to say that I have been so
happy with you and your work that I do
want to keep you and if my one vote is
going to make a difference and you're
staying or not, I think I'm going to
vote for the just cause so that I can
keep you here because I that I want. I
know it's flip-flopping,
but um if that's what it takes,
I'm going to go for that.
>> Okay.
>> I want to go on record as being that I
want her here.
>> Okay.
>> I want her to I'm very I'm very happy
with her performance. I've never had an
issue with her performance when she's
come back. I've told you that multiple
times in your office. Tess
[laughter]
>> Tess Tess, if you can, Tess, can you
mute yourself? So, I will. Yeah.
>> Thank you.
>> Um, okay. So, um, uh, we have a motion
on the floor. Um,
>> the contract wording for the termination
clause I read out related to just
clause.
>> Um, anybody else have any other?
>> Right. Okay. So,
I'd like to call a vote on that. So an
creme
>> for the just cause. Yes.
>> Okay. Carol Lee
Carol.
>> Okay. Jeff Murray. I'm gonna abstain
from this. Okay. Scott P.
>> I'm sorry.
>> I'm sorry. I I was going to abstain too.
I'm sorry.
>> Okay.
Scott Person,
>> as always, just cause.
>> Okay. Jeff Magcguire. Yes. So, the the
vote on this is 302
with Jeff Murray and Carol Lee
abstaining.
All right. So, what does that do? Um,
and that sits there and allows us to to
sit there and offer you test that
contract. And as I talked to you about
that today, um, uh, we needed to breathe
and we needed to talk about what we were
doing. So, this gives you an opportunity
to think about what you're going to do.
I I do not expect an answer today. Uh,
and I don't want an answer at this
meeting because um, emotions are a
killer when it comes to contracts and
budgets.
Um,
okay. So, we're going to move on to
something else so that we can
get moving.
Okay. So, that was uh 9A.
So, we're going to move on to 9A. Uh,
the status of the veterans field
improvement. Scott gave us a nice uh
rundown of that. Um, we'll sit there and
go with that one. We don't need to talk
anymore about it. 9B, the review of the
senior transportation garage status. Um
Matt, one of the things that we need to
do, and it's something that you and
myself and Jeff Murray will work on, is
we need to get the the um the
layout of that building from the group
that we've had. We have a document from
them, but we need some additional
information. And then we need to circle
that back up into the new uh
construction group that has been put
together which we also need the
information on. So
>> So yeah, you could get together um and
just get the if you can give me the
contact information of that board, the
email addresses of those board members
on that committee.
>> Um I can reach out to them and if if we
have the contact information for the
engineering firm, I mean I can even
reach out to them and get the drawings
if I have a contact person. Okay. As as
if because then we'll we'll convene the
committee and we'll we'll choose a chair
and a vice chair and we'll get that
we'll get that rolling.
>> When are we going to convene this?
>> I just uh I said Scott, I had knee
surgery two weeks ago. I've been I've
been out down and out. I've been just
trying to get back on my feet. So, um
I'm I I I asked for the I asked for the
names a couple couple months ago, a
couple meetings ago. I just still
haven't gotten them yet. I just I need
email addresses. I don't have I don't
have any contact information for the
members, so I can't even get a hold of
anybody.
>> Matt Kate Kate has all of those members
and you we she needs to put together a
list so that we can sit there and go
back to all those members and and reach
out to them and get them engaged in this
project because this is the ne next
project that has to be Jeff Murray. This
there there's there's a lot of work
that's completed on this
job. A lot. I don't want to see this
torn apart.
and go back to the go back to the
beginning of of what this is there
there's a lot of there's a lot of prints
there's a lot of information already
>> I know Scott I just said I was going to
request the drawings
>> I I know Jeff
there's no Scott Scott that you're wrong
you're wrong this this this this
building is designed incorrectly and we
had a meeting we had a meeting with that
group sit there and give us a basic was
just changed That's all the roof line
just changed. It's not built
incorrectly.
>> It had to go up. It had to go up to get
the pitch off the back floor. So, we'll
sit there and do it. There's It's not
It's It project is going to get done.
It's It's already grant funded. We
already were told what we had to do from
historical because
nobody in town will will will believe
this, but that building's in the
historic district and it's
>> that's another issue. you know,
>> we have to spend we have to spend money
on another historical building for my
>> we have to we were we were we were it
was an agreement to sit there and spend
some money on the uh old town hall. So,
we'll sit there and get it. And Scott,
this is not it's not this is not
something where this is all set to go
and we're getting in the way of
progress. It's that we need to sit there
and work together with this new group to
sit there and do it in an appropriate
way for the least amount of money for
the benefit of the town. So
>> I mean Jeff and I what did we meet? What
do you mean four or five months ago? We
met with the with the
>> Yeah, we met we met with them
>> and we we could tell right away that
that roof line was not going to fly.
>> Yeah.
>> So we we definitely have to do some
redesign and then that's where we're
going to put the committee together.
We're going to put some ideas.
>> Yeah.
>> What you doing is changing the trusses.
That's it. And and what it was, Scott,
no, what it was was my request to go up
to have dry storage to get the roof line
off there. They were they don't have
that
>> designed spend. We have to spend $30,000
at the museum.
>> Correct. But there's other there's other
issues. So, we'll als Jeff Jeff, if you
can sit there and and work with Matt and
get this done, uh it would be greatly
appreciated. Um
>> Yep. Understood. I just
>> I said I've been bogged down with other
personal issues and I just haven't had
it I I haven't I said I haven't had the
contact information so I really haven't
been able to act on it.
>> Okay. Um and um so the status of the
Long Hill Bridge project, we discussed
that too. That's going uh underway uh
also. Um Scott, in the Department of
Public Works presentation, the uh the
um
I don't know what you'd call those, but
the bridge the bridge
>> ones at the end of the bridge. They were
taken off so we could make a a bench for
them.
I would like you I would like you to sit
there and figure out where you would
like those
>> 1934 bench ends where they can go and
how we can do it.
>> All right.
>> Um
9D the status of the Percy Cook Trail.
Um
that's something that uh to
[clears throat] me is not a priority.
The next priority is the building uh for
the senior center, the senior van. Um
that building has to get done. So we
need to sit there and move that forward.
Um so Matt, look at the Percy Cook Trail
and um you know, like if you if I sat
there and I gave you things, we just
need to know that there's a there's a
grant out there to potentially do that.
We have to sit there and see what the
timing on that grant is and if what we
we can and can't do. Because if you sat
there and I gave you my priorities, I
would sit there and tell you we got to
finish the the field. We got to move on
to the old firehouse and do that um dry
storage and space for the vehicles to be
parked. And then we need to move on to
the culvert over on Bizola Road to sit
there and go through. Those are the next
three projects that sit there and
have to get dealt with. Um 9E the status
of the animal control services. Uh each
one of us received an email from Matt
where we got the opinion. Um
NECOG had brought suit against the
resident. Um
the judge ruled in favor of the resident
and provided back to the resident the
dog and the frogs. Um
that is something that we need to get
with NECOG and have a much better
understanding of when um
animal uh
when when we are faced with a an issue
related to taking animals out of
homeowners, we have to do a much better
job stepping up initially within the
process and
doing uh what is correct in for the
town. Um, in this case, this this issue
cost us in the range of $20,000.
Um, you're going to see expenses for
Sage and Howerin or Howerin and Sage um
that are going to blow a couple of our
legal budget line items out of the
water. So, um, at this point in time,
that is done. Matt, I would ask you to
get to NECOG and speak to Jim Rivers and
make sure that this is done. Like, I
don't want to hear that the Sage and
Howerin and Sage attorney went back to
try to
reopen the case and relitigate the case.
The dogs can stay with the resident. The
resident can keep the dogs and the frogs
>> and the frogs.
>> Just uh I did talk to the attorney
there. She she had said this is o it's
over. the uh end of the billing is gonna
you know from Halard's age is gonna
happen. So they understand the
situation.
>> Yeah.
>> Sounds to me Jeff. But if you read the
judges thing that the dogs and the frogs
were, you know, not in great shape, but
they weren't in bad shape. And um he
based his whole opinion on that.
>> And so it sounds like Niko made a bad
assessment of these animals and took
them away from the owner.
>> Wow. and it cost us $20,000.
>> I I will tell you that at that point in
time, Eric Anderson was involved in this
case and was dealing with this issue as
a hoarding issue and as uh and there was
other things that were going on. Um we
just have to have a much better
understanding of what long-term happens
to the town when we get into these
situations.
So,
>> we should have been informed before this
started about what was going on with
this. I remember when Eric was talking
about it initially.
>> Yeah. And we should have made a decision
to um work with the resident rather than
take the animals.
>> Okay. Um 9F discussion and update on the
AES RFP for bathroom renovations. Uh
Jeff Murray, I believe this is just
scheduled to move forward at the end of
the schools.
>> Yes, I haven't heard anything from Eric
Sanderson, so I'm assuming everything is
uh greenlighted and ready to go.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah, Eric is the leazison. He's the one
who knows what's going on.
>> Okay. Um I mean, I know the last time
that I asked something at the board of
education, it was timeline was right for
the end of school and it was going to
get done. So, that's great. um nine.
>> Yeah, Jeff. Jeff, that should be
publicized that we did save the school.
We did save $200,000 by going that
route.
>> Okay.
>> Was it was a large amount of money that
we saved.
>> Certainly was.
>> Yes. But we never there was there was
never any formal recognition of that
cost savings.
>> So,
and is Eric getting paid for this also?
>> He's he's Yeah, he's getting a stip in
his uh is to do to do the um daily Yeah.
supervision of the the project.
>> Is that included in the cost?
>> Yeah, he he's getting us he was approved
as stipped, I think, by the board of
finance.
>> That's what the school the B the BOE
asked for through the board of finance
and it was approved.
>> Yeah. And and that's fine, Scott. If we
can have somebody that sits there and
does um
um
watches out for the interests of the
town and the school, it's in everybody's
interest.
>> If I was retired, I would have done it,
but I just I can't be there every day.
So, and Eric was Eric was more
available. So,
>> okay. Um nine.
Anybody else have anything else in the
bathroom project?
>> Okay. uh 9G discussion and possible
action on Hop River Homes contract. Um
>> I I I I think that we should just uh you
know motion to renew those the two
contracts, the one for the softball
field and the motion for the um the last
agreement for the abatement. Just get
this going.
>> Um actually, [clears throat] um we need
to schedule I need to sit there and get
a special meeting scheduled. We were
supposed to have a sitdown with the uh
members of the board for the Hop River
Homes and uh
>> I would like to schedule that for June
17th, which is the day after the uh
referendum um
>> because we may also have to make some
decisions on the 17th related to the
budget. So, I'd just like to see if
everybody would have some time, let's
say around 11 o'clock or noon for lunch
to sit there and have a face toface
meeting with the members of Hop River
Homes.
>> As long as it's done by 1:30.
>> Yeah. Anybody else have any problems
with that day?
>> I mean, I have a problem with that
softball contract. I mean, we're not
using that field for anything. Well,
under understood, but what what we need
to do is sit down with the members of
the board of of Hop River Homes and then
make a decision so we can make
>> I would like to know what I'd like to
know if we could have some alternate,
you know, uses for that parcel if the
town could use it just not for softball.
Is there is there anything else that
they would be open to us using it for?
And that's that's what we need to sit
down with them and discuss as to what
we're doing because uh and what we need
to do is get from the tax collector the
total amount of the difference related
to uh revenue earned or potentially
earned
>> because that softball field is just
sitting there and we and if we're going
to give an abatement the town has to get
some kind of value out of that.
>> Okay. Um, I I would like to sit there
and have that face to face so that we
could sit there and and discuss with the
members of the board of UP River Homes
and potentially the management group
there as to what the abatement is used
for and what value does it give to
residents and all the other stuff that
we need to do. And then Jeff, we can ask
the same questions of if we did this, is
there something else we can use that
field for that would make sense?
>> Yeah. because I know that field is the
backup
leech field or the
>> for the homes. So,
>> it can't be a parking lot. It can't be
anything like that. But is there another
recreational use that we could, you
know, repurpose that field for?
>> Okay. And so, let's have that if if
everybody's okay with that date, we I'd
like to we're going to schedule it for
face to face. Uh, I had reached out to
Maria before the meeting and and as long
as we can do it, we've been trying to
get it scheduled, but as long as we can
do it on the 17th, that would be great.
That would kill.
>> Field was in better shape. Hammer would
use it.
>> Yeah. Okay. Well, let's have that.
That's all. Let's have that discussion,
all of that
on the 17th.
So look at your calendars, make sure
you're okay with that, and we'll put it
on the the
>> we'll post it and have Kate do an agenda
related to that. So,
and so right now there would really be
two items. The budget and the the
you know it's it would be something
related with our board of finance
members on the potential budget and and
mil rate setting and there would be um
the meeting with a hot river homes board
and anything else that we got. So if we
have contracts that we have to deal with
Matt's contracts coming up we got to
discuss that. Um, and so we'll go from
there. And actually, was that not on
here?
>> H,
we're going to have a little discussion
on that, too. Um,
>> I thought it was on here.
>> I thought it was as well, and my bad.
>> It's 9K.
>> 9K.
>> Oh, that's right. Yeah, 9K.
>> Thank you. All right.
Okay. So, uh, 9H website update and
possible action on new website
committee. Um, is this something that we
can push to our next meeting?
Yeah. Okay, great. Uh, 9 a 9 I
janitorial decision. Uh, Matt, please
make sure that the that is posted and
that we get out there because I believe
um
we're done by the end of this month,
correct? Or was it the end of May?
We did get an email of interest for
that.
>> We've had a couple uh you know interests
uh Carol. So we have to sit there and
look at at what we're doing and then we
just need to make sure that we do
publicize it. Um so we're going to have
to figure this out and we're gonna have
to figure this one out quick.
>> It's not just
>> a custodian job.
>> It's right. I know it's maintenance and
everything.
>> He did more. He did more, Scott. And
maybe what we try to do is split this up
and maybe we get a handyman for the town
and you know, we got somebody to do the
cleaning,
>> anything like that, those two again.
>> Okay. No, they're we're going to miss
them. Um
9J, the Wheeling Road property uh
request discussion. I'd like to also
push this one to the next meeting. I
don't have anything on this unless
somebody has something.
>> Do we ever get any information on that?
>> No. I mean, this
>> that's all we know right now is that
property can't be sold.
>> Yeah, because I know we're supposed to
check into it.
>> I know it can't be sold. We can't we
can't we can't trade. We can't do a
swap, right?
>> No. So, we've been busy.
>> I think it's very I think it's great. I
think it's extremely limited on what we
can do once it was gifted to the town.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Well, let's sit there and push this off
until our next meeting and then we can
discuss it at that point in time.
>> Okay. I just want to give them an answer
though. I mean, I just don't want to
keep
>> Okay. Um 9L discussion and possible
action on the sharing the spirit of
America. So, Matt, we need to sit there
and set a reading.
Is that what you're after?
>> Typically, we we would want to publicize
that somebody's going to read it. It's
probably could be anybody. Could be a
elected official. Could be a you know
senior or veteran. Somebody just uh
historical
reading
>> the Declaration of Independence.
>> Yeah. Declaration of Independence
because it's the uh you know
250th anniversary signing of the
Declaration of Independence.
We missed uh his town administrator
contract.
>> Oh. Oh yeah, I did. Sorry. I wanted to
talk about it. Uh so we'll go back to
that one. We'll go to K discussion and
possible action on town administrators
contract. Um there's a clause in the
contract that I have been working with
Matt on and it's been taking a little
bit of time. It's related to um
retirement contributions. Currently um
currently the town participates in the
MRS MURF the municipal employee
retirement fund. Um there's um we're
having some discussions between Matt and
I as to you know I'm pretty much driving
this. I'd rather him not participate in
MURF. I'd rather him participate in the
457b
if at all possible. It would potentially
save the town money, give Matt some
additional flexibility as to the
retirement fund. Um, we are still trying
to determine if it causes us any
problems with anything else because
there's the right now the 457B
is a um um
it's a voluntary contribution on behalf
of the employees.
And the MURF is um
I mean really honestly the MURF is a 16%
contribution for every town employee.
It's it's ridiculous. Um, so we're
trying to work through some ways to
potentially save the town money and make
this some more give it more flexibility
for Matt. But, um, to do that, we're
trying to check all the boxes. So, we
need actually the plan document on the
457 that Matt is going to sit there and
try to obtain to sit there and get that
done. So, um, it's not that we're not
trying to move the contract forward,
it's just been problem. No, go ahead.
>> I have a question. Yeah. Um, this
relates back to people's comments about
so many people leaving. I feel like one
reason that we lost Jay Tuttle was we
only offered him a one-year contract and
it should have been a two. I'm looking
here at this one for Matt and it's a
one-year. We ought to be making this a
two-year contract.
>> Well, we made that a one-year contract
and that that was specific to our
circumstances. So, that's not up for
debate as to what we're trying to do.
The issues are the clauses related to
the first year because there were other
reasons why we did that when you you
voted on it as well.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, it just seems like it would be
better to be too. I wanted to state
that.
>> Yep. So, um,
as soon as I can sit there and get some
clarification on it, uh, I do have the
information, it would end up at the once
we get clarification on the the document
and understanding of what we're doing.
We believe that, uh, we're okay. We just
want to make sure that we uh, protect
the town is really what's going on.
Great. Uh, anything else on 9K?
Okay. 9L the discussion possible action
on sharing the spirit. Matt, can you
come back with us as to a timing and a
place um that we can do this? I mean, we
may as well do it right at the town
hall. Um the ETH is
a Mon what is the ETH? I don't even know
what day of the week it is.
>> Wednesday.
>> Yeah,
>> it's a Wednesday.
>> Wednesday. Um
>> um
>> we should sit there and do it right at
the town hall and have the reading done
at the community center.
>> Yeah.
>> And and maybe we could see if uh you
know we can get it recorded. We can put
it on the the channel or something.
>> Sure. We can talk to Elaine Bukart and
sit there and see if we can get that
done.
>> Okay.
>> Need time to practice.
And it doesn't have it could be we have
a you know two or three people need
these read a second partake.
>> Yeah.
>> All right sit there and go through that.
Uh item 9M discussion and possible
action on the diesel fuel system and
pump upgrades. Um we actually made a
motion on this before and pass. So we're
all set.
>> Okay. Um item 10. Um I'm sorry I got to
go back. NN
>> is handover youth basketball.
>> Nine endover youth basketball.
>> Spirit of America sharing the spirit of
America. That's before our next meeting.
So we decided to be conscious of that.
>> Okay. Uh we'll put that on our agenda
and make sure that we have it finalized
for our our special meeting in
>> Okay.
>> June 17th. Okay.
>> Okay. um nine uh n uh Andover a
discussion on possible action on Andover
youth basketball. So Carol, can you tell
us what what's up with Andover youth
basketball?
>> I sure can. So what um is happening is
our numbers are down as you know we
don't have a lot of students. So last
year, Hebrin was kind enough to open up
their program after registration had
closed and allow two of our seventh
grade girls to join. So we just want to
ensure that our
residents will have a place in Hebrin.
As a matter of fact, one of the
basketball coaches who had who's on here
tonight uh did speak with me beforehand
and told me that our players should be
playing with Hebrin and Marro because
eventually they will be playing with
them at RAM. So all of our other
programs are currently with Hebrin. The
soccer program migrated there as did our
Andover youth baseball and softball.
So just to ensure that our players
always have a basketball program to
participate in, we did discuss and with
Hebrin about moving our program over to
Hebrin.
>> So the complication
>> I'm sorry.
>> Where where did the complication come
in? or what is the
issue?
>> So we we can't field teams for some of
the age groups and our kids have to go
to Hebrin anyway.
>> But hasn't he always accommodated our
kids
>> when we haven't been able to have a
team?
>> So are you
>> Yeah,
>> I'm sorry.
>> No, go ahead.
Last year their registration had closed
and they reopened to allow two of our
kids to go there. [snorts]
>> Okay. But uh my question ended up being
is is always
Hebrin has always accommodated if we've
run out of uh members to fill a team. So
my question is are we having problems on
all
I mean, are we disbanding the entire
program?
>> So, the instru instructional program is
still going to stay in Andover.
The teams where we can field the teams,
the coaches, um, so three, four boys for
instance, we're were able to field a
team with them. so that we're still
going to use our gym and
we'll still have teams and the
instructional program will be here.
But what's happening too is that um a
Ram is a group that some of our coaches
got together with Marboro and created
the Ram basketball team. So what they're
doing is they're taking the better
players from our teams to play on this
Ram team. So that will further reduce
the number of our players. So the rec
commission we discussed it we felt that
it was in the best interest
to merge with Hebrin as we did with all
the other sport programs. Well, you you
know you know, Carol, that merging those
sports programs was never in the best
interest of Andover. They had to be done
in baseball because there's too many
kids required at any one grade level.
And and that I understood, but
basketball was the one sport that you
had the opportunity to keep
a local sports program active.
[clears throat]
And I guess what I'm hearing though is
that the wreck commission did this
without really consulting with the
families that participate that in this.
And I got to believe that didn't that
won't go over real well with the
families.
Well, some of the coaches that were
asked after the fact to uh participate
in the RAM program
did have serious concerns about
whether or not our program would be able
to survive.
>> So, there were some of the coaches who
did feel it did have concerns over this.
Well,
So if you're asking if you want us to
>> talk to every parent of a player in
grades three through six,
we can do that.
>> Well, I think it would be in our
interest to sit there and get the WCK
commission to communicate with the
I mean, listen, I was involved in this
up until this last year.
>> I know you were. So, so I sit there and
I I sit there and I'm
I mean I didn't even ask did you even
have an instructional instructional
program this year or did you get rid of
it?
>> Yes, we did have the instructional. We
had prek.
>> Okay.
>> And K in one group and then first and
second grade. They were different
sessions.
>> It did different sessions. Okay.
>> Right.
>> Oh, and just so the public knows, I ran
the prek program for 10 years.
I know you did.
>> I'm a terrible human.
>> Thank you, Jeff Maguire.
>> No, I'm a terrible human.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, so, um,
>> it was both,
>> Carol. I would sit there and tell you I
would tell you I I'm going to go.
Listen, when baseball
>> disbanded and we gave it to Ram, which I
know why we had to do it is terrible.
The things that build community in the
in in town start with AES and move into
the sports programs. And when you sit
there and you disband a sports program,
the one sports program in my head that
we can we can manage, like it's not
perfect. You will never get, you know,
like if you have 20 children in a third
grade class and they're split evenly
among boys and girls, you may not get 12
kids to participate. I would always I
always hope that you could get all of
the kids to participate in basketball.
And wreck basketball in my head is wreck
basketball. Travel is a different
animal. Ram travel is something that
everybody's talked about for years and
it really probably should happen so that
the best players in Andover, the best
players in Hebrin and the best players
in marble play together so that when
they get to Ram High School, they have a
better chance of success. I understand
the logic of doing it, but I I look at
the wreck program is all of the other
kids and
we've got to do a better job of of
recruiting and doing it. And that's why
I always thought preK was really
important because you get them
interested and they might continue to do
it. So, but what I'm asking what I'm
asking and I know Justin, you got your
hand up. I'm not we're not gonna sit
there and do this. Carol,
>> please get with all of the members
>> that care about this. So get with Eric
Latesca, get with Justin, and please
come up with a a plan that thinks about
the benefit of all of the the children
and and the parents that care and takes
into account their needs so that we do
what is right moving forward, right? Can
you do that from the reccomission
standpoint?
>> The rec commission, we we can we will
talk about that. Yes.
>> Okay. Um, so Eric and Justin and anyone
else that's on here related to that,
Miss Miss Latesca will will sit there
and please uh um reach out to Carol and
if I need to be involved in that, I will
gladly do it. All right.
Okay. And with that said, Jeeoff, my son
is the only Andor
child playing Little Ram Little League.
We only have one child from Andover
playing Little League.
>> Yeah. It's It's terrible.
>> It's sad. It's very sad. And and and
listen, I um uh
>> I mean in his age group, I'm saying you
know
>> and and and what has to happen what has
to happen.
I mean honestly I will sit there and
tell you I think the community center
needs to be more engaged in these types
of programs. It shouldn't just be the
rec commission. It should not be the rec
commission. You know the way that the
rec commission has been in the past and
and where we move. I've always believed
that for the benefit of Andover and the
benefit of any Andover sports program,
you have to run you have to run the uh
the the feeder system. You have to focus
on the prek. You have to focus on the
first grade or second grader. I I may
not have made any of those kids um you
know NBA level talent, but if you make
them happy and they want to come out and
they want to keep playing, it me makes a
difference. And that's always been where
I've believed that a small town like
Andover can have a difference in those
type of programs at the really young
ages.
You know, you got to make the hoop so
they can make a shot. If they can't make
a shot, they don't want to play. If
they're if they're like baseball, if you
stand around and you don't do anything,
it's hard to sit there and get engaged.
You have to get the kids doing things
and so that they enjoy their time. And
um I think Carol, what has to happen is
you have to sit there and work with the
parents. I don't want really the parents
coming back to us saying that they
weren't engaged in this process because
if that happens, it's not going to be in
the best interests of of the kids. So if
you can please do that, I would I would
it would be helpful to the rest of the
board. So right um anyone else? Justin
and Eric, you want to stay on till the
end? you can sit there and public speak
and we can make sure that those meetings
happen so that we can move forward. Um
all right. Um
banking issues. Uh I do believe that we
talked about them during the treasurer's
um
the treasurer's report. Um just so
everybody understands uh Matt is the is
has been put on as a signer. Everything
else is straightened out. Um there are
some issues that we continue to work
through but those are related to fraud
issues and working with Mnt Bank so that
we make sure that we minimize any
problems. There has been just so
everybody understands other than the
issues related to uh Mnt
um freezing the account and not allowing
some transactions to happen. There might
be some uh late fees and penalties
related to some of the items where they
stopped payment on it. Lisa will work
that stuff out. I'll work with her on
that. Um there's no loss in funds for
the town of Andover. So there's not been
anything that's happened where the town
of Andover has um
has had to eat a fraudulent transaction.
That's not what's happen. So let
everybody know that.
>> Right.
>> Um then who are the signers of the check
check signers now?
Uh they were always the same Ann the
current signers uh you know Matt is one
I am one
>> so
you can listen listen an you can talk to
the treasurer tomorrow to get the
signers rather than talking about them
all on this meeting if you understand
why.
>> Right.
>> All right.
>> Okay.
Okay. Um,
I think I'm done with anything that was
added.
We're going to move on to item 10, new
business. Uh, 2026 2027 budget
discussion. There's nothing for us to
discuss at this meeting. Um, just so
everybody understands, we are not uh
none no one here on this board has a
vote on the board of finance. No one
here has uh um a vote on the board of
education. Um everything that's going to
happen moving forward is related to the
one vote that I have in the referendum
and I'm just like every other voter
here. So um we will see where it comes
out. What has to happen related to the
budget and just so everybody knows is if
it passes the board of finance will set
the the rate. Uh if it fails uh the
board of selectmen will end up setting
where the budget's at moving
[clears throat] forward. And that would
be part of our bud our meeting special
meeting on the 17th. We we did that
three years ago too, didn't we? One time
I think
>> uh I do believe that uh I don't believe
we ever did it. I believe we did we did
during COVID, but that was not because
of this issue, not because of failed
budgets. Um
>> in this situation because the mill the
the bills need to be sent out for July
1st. Um they need to have the mill rate
set and the information set. So, um, I
believe two years ago when this was a
possibility, Eric asked Dennis, the town
attorney for an opinion on this as to
what's going. So, uh, I'll make sure
that that opinion gets sent out to
everybody so everybody understands it.
Okay.
Um, item 10B, vendor permit. I do
believe that there's vendor permit in
our packet.
Um,
page 33,
it's for Southwest Advantage.
Um, educational resources for students
of all ages.
I I know that he paid the fee and it's a
whopping $5 and he's been out. I know
that there's been potentially some
complaints already about this, but
um
unless we have issues related to
door-to-d dooror salespeople, what are
we going to do?
>> I think a lot of the complaints, Jeff,
were about not heeding to the no
soliciting signs.
[clears throat]
>> I saw a couple complaints about that. If
he could just if there's a no soliciting
sign on the property, just no
trespassing, just stay off the property.
>> Okay. So, if we approve this, I would
like to do it and let him know like just
stay off. Just leave those people alone.
>> Okay. So, I'll make a motion that we
approve the uh vendor license for
Southwestern Advantage and with
a um
>> restriction to stay off of
>> Yeah. with with a with a
>> posted no trespassing and no soliciting
signs
>> with an understanding that the town
administrator will reach out to the
applicant and inform him of the issues
related to no soliciting and no
trespassing signs on residents
properties
>> private private property. Okay,
>> that Scott seconded. Okay, further
discussion on the permit.
Ann, how do you vote?
>> I,
>> Carol,
>> I.
>> Carol's, yes. Jeff,
>> I Scott
Jeff I. So, five nothing on that one.
Um,
town uh buildings code of conduct. Um,
this this was created by I believe Matt
by some of the employees.
Is that accurate?
Why don't you explain to the to the
board why we're dealing with this right
now?
So, uh there's been several uh instances
of uh IA uh public coming into the town.
That's why I think that some of the
offices still have up the uh the plexig
glass. Uh about a week ago, even the
assessor's office, somebody was angry
and they uh they flung their uh license
plates. They're all banged up and muddy,
but they throw them into the general
direction of the uh the clerk in the
assessor's office.
Everybody has a
uh I guess even with town clerks, the uh
tax collector, they've dealt with people
that are sometimes unruly using uh
profanity or raising their voices and
put making it a just an unsafe
situation. Uh so they would like to just
have something in writing that says,
"Well, if you you come into town hall,
please follow these, you know, core
principles, these, you know, so that uh
town there's any enforcement on it, but
really just if something happens, we
could say you you have to leave the
building. So,
I have to look at what page that's on
here. I was just trying to
>> It's on It's on page 34.
>> 34. Thank you.
>> Um, who originally wrote it, Jeff?
>> It was It was written by Kate and I
guess it was presented to the select
board a couple years ago.
>> Yeah. and she's bringing it back because
uh you know the issue with the uh in the
assessor's office with the person like
just basically flew the flung the uh
license plates under the glass in her
general direction. They didn't hit her.
>> Okay. Um so uh can can we all as members
sit there and read this and let's bring
this to our special meeting as well and
um maybe what we do is we get this if we
you know whatever we believe is
acceptable we post it on the doors on
the way in so that the residents
understand and and it's not that the
residents will you know this I would sit
there and I I would go it's not every
resident this this is not the issue this
is this is there's select hit people
that are angry and have issues and and
they behave poorly and and that's what
this is directed at. And we probably
should sit there and work to um honor
the employees and sit there and look at
this and come up with something that we
feel is acceptable and vote on the
special meeting or even the July
meeting.
>> I suppose everybody read it. I think
it's a good document.
>> Yeah, I'm in favor of it, too. And I
think it should actually be in every it
should be on every department office
should be posted right there
>> because if somebody starts getting ruly
they could just say sir ma'am
do we have a code of conduct here please
read this before you know and I mean if
it's on the door if they're a ranger to
open the door and fly through but if
it's right there and they each
department and they can say hey you know
you need to cut it down we have a code
of conduct here please read this you
know and you know if they are right and
they lose their you know then if we have
to call
trooper or whatever. We'll have to do
what we got to do.
>> Yeah, that's what I was looking for
because I thought there was something
about I was talking about the
enforcement of it. I knew
>> call the trooper. Let him deal with it.
>> Okay. Um if if everybody here is is okay
with uh approving this just as is, I'm
I'm fine.
>> I'm approving it. Yeah.
>> Right. Somebody
>> um should it should it shouldn't should
it go to our town attorney just to make
sure it's legal? I mean, just
>> it probably already did. I don't know if
it has or not.
>> It hasn't. Uh I mean, we can do that and
then approve it at the special meeting.
>> Special meeting. I think I just like to
see Dennis's blessing on it before we
post.
>> Okay. So, Matt, can you send that to
Dennis to have him take a look at that
code of conduct?
>> Okay. Um event permits D. Um
uh it starts on page 35, 36, 37, 38. Uh
it ends on 39. Um
this is also something that should go to
the town attorney. Um, and I know Jeff
that you had some things that you had
talked about adding which I agree with
like you should have a a permitting fee
change when it's too close to the date
and
>> correct
>> to get people to do it in a timely
manner so we can get it approved and
then get any necessary services in place
that need to be dealt with. Um,
>> it's just not fair to our, you know, our
fire chief or anybody else that we're
going to have to go through. this the
last minute. I mean, they should have
plenty of notice to to ask questions.
And I mean, this stuff comes in a week
before. It's just crazy. I mean, they
can't even ask questions.
>> Okay.
>> These for all
is just on municipal property or all
events?
>> No, all events.
>> Well, if you have a if you have a
private event on your property and you
don't utilize the streets or you're not
doing street parking, I think that was
the deal with the one on Hutchinson,
right? Correct.
>> Yeah. Um they were they were parking on
the street.
>> They were parking on the street. Yeah.
>> Yeah. So they were using the they were
using so they needed to let us know in
case we you know had an emergency or
something. The the fire chief knew that
the you know the tow the road was going
to be restricted.
>> So
all right. Well um I have no problem
with sitting there and we need to send
that off to Dennis just to make sure.
And and what we should do, Jeff, is any
of the extra fee structure, we should
sit there and communicate back to them
because I know at some point in time you
had done that. I thought I saw an email.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
Oh, I'm sorry. It does go 41 42. That's
a long section.
43 44
45.
Okay.
Um this is something that Kate wrote to
us. It's related to um hearing in public
meetings primarily, I would guess, more
around the town meeting. that's hard to
hear with the current audio system that
we have. So, um I have no problem, Matt,
with Kate continuing to do some research
to find a system that might work to
better accommodate
residents that have hearing issues.
>> I don't think there's anything that we
need to do right now until we find a
solution for
>> Yeah,
>> the meetings.
>> I agree. I'll uh we'll keep working.
>> You have something to add?
>> No, I'm just saying sounds like a good
idea.
>> All right. Um
item 11 is um the approval of minute
meetings. Uh they start on the May 11th
meeting. minutes are on page 49,
50, 49, 50, 51,
52, and 53.
I'll make a motion that we p that we
approve the
minute meetings for the May 11th, 2026
regular meeting.
>> I'll second that, Jeff. Scott seconded.
All right. Further discussion
and how do you vote?
>> I
>> Carol
>> Scott
>> I
>> I'm sorry I went out of order. Jeff
Murray by Jeff Mcguire. Five nothing.
Sorry. Supposed to be alphabetical. My
bad.
Uh [snorts]
tax collector's report. It starts on
page 55 in the packet. Um,
we have $154,778
of taxes from prior year left to
collect.
Um, last month we collected $135,000
and Kate has
uh information on page 57 and 58
um
related to tax sales. Um,
that is something that Matt we're going
to have to sit there and do a little bit
more uh detail on that just so we can
sit there and get that done. All right.
Um,
she also is providing because Kate needs
the bills printed. She's also providing
on page 60,61
and 62
uh and 63 information related to uh
setting the mill rate. So everybody can
read those pages. Those are important
for everybody to understand um what
happens. So what happens if the budget
passes the board of finance has to have
a special meeting on the 17th also to
sit there and set the mill rate based
upon the budget passing. And if the
budget fails, that's actually where it
comes back to the board of selectmen to
sit there and set the budget moving
forward based upon the prior year budget
or what we believe is necessary to add
to the budget just for the initial
bills. That doesn't mean that the budget
doesn't continue to go through the same
process and it doesn't get voted on
again. um it would go back to the board
of finance, but the next vote would be
after the um the bills need to go out.
So, and we're also probably going to
have a problem if RAM fails. So, there's
probably going to have to be a reprint
of some bills at some point in time um
for the third, the fourth, for in our
case, the third, the second, the third,
and the fourth payment. So
on page 64 in the packet, uh these are
um
the highest
outstanding taxpayers or delinquent
taxpayers. So page 64
through page 78 sits there and
represents the uh individuals within
town
that have yet to pay their taxes or have
delinquent tax bills. So anyone in
>> I have a request that
>> sure
>> could they can that be condensed and
just have instead of having all those
things some people have an entire page
>> could it just be the name the address
and their total instead of taking up so
many pages in our packet. Yeah, we could
sit there and ask her to do this, but
this is something that she has easy
access to produce
>> and that's why she does it.
>> And it shows all the years and the
different uh
>> I know, but our packet is so huge. It
could be condensed that way.
>> Okay. And we can ask her in um
>> maybe after we get an advent. I would
tell you if I was if I was if I was a
taxpayer,
>> let's say somebody that we all know that
comes to a lot of meetings, I would
rather have it this way than have one
little line and one page of all the
delinquent people. But that would just
be me. So I like your idea, Ann, because
it calls out everybody really. There's
10 people on the list. That's all there
is. Maybe 15 people and it just puts it
right out there. So, we'll ask the tax
the tax collector if we can get that
done.
>> Thank you.
>> Yeah. Um, on page 79
and and I just got to ask a question.
Ian, do you print the documents?
>> I print some of them. I'd much rather
have it in print than trying to look
through it on my computer.
>> It'd be nice if this was all printed and
something like that be condensed so that
it wouldn't be so many pages. Okay.
>> He discussed Kate discussed the tax
sale, but she didn't say I think she
said four properties, but she didn't
tell us which four properties.
>> No. And we'll sit there and get that as
we move forward. Um, does anyone else
here print the documents?
>> Carol, do you print?
>> Some of them.
>> Some of them. Okay. All right. Scott, do
you print? I'm just trying to
understand. I use my computer.
>> Okay. And Jeff, I know you don't print.
I don't print.
>> So, I mean, I keep them up during the
meeting and leaf through them as I'm
going. So, all right.
>> I have two I have two I have two
monitors. So, I have the meeting open on
one. I have the documents open on
another.
>> I have budget season.
>> I have budget season. I just I use I use
just get another computer.
>> I have my laptop doing the meeting and I
have my two screens,
>> right,
>> that I use to deal with.
>> I just print so I can keep notes.
Understood.
>> Okay. So, on page 79, we have $119.84
of tax refunds due for this month. Um,
I'll make a motion that we approve uh
total refunds, tax refunds for the month
of June of $119.84.
>> Second that. and Kerme as seconded. All
right. Well, further discussion. No.
Ann, how do you vote?
>> I.
>> Carol
>> Jeff Murray.
>> Hi.
>> Scott Person.
>> I.
>> Jeff McGuire. Hi. Five. Nothing. Okay.
Um,
now we're moving on to um departmental
reports. In 13, we have the assessor's
office report. Anybody have any
questions or any issues on any of these
reports they'd like to discuss?
Okay. So, we have the assessor's report.
Uh that's a page 82, 83, and 84. We have
the building department. We had $14,000
of uh
I won't say permits, but uh of building
departmental fees uh and bonds that were
paid, $14,242
during the month of May.
That's on page 85,8687.
>> We had a house being built for 500 that
we made $7,500.
Here we go.
>> Yay.
Um, all right. Um,
all the permitting information uh goes
all the way through to page 97. Um,
any questions related to that? All
right. The um, Department of Public
Works. And I just want to make sure that
I thought I saw Eric on before, but he's
not on anymore. Correct.
>> That's fine. He's not there. So, the
Department of Public Works
uh is on page 98. Um
they've been doing catch basic cleaning.
Uh
uh item three, he he was repairing the
curb at the town hall, the firehouse,
and various locations. That happened to
be a day that I was uh in the town hall.
And to be really honest, I asked him why
he was even doing that. Um, but I
understand why he was doing that. But he
will be doing that also for the school.
And what I'm telling you is that um
next year in the next budget cycle, we
need to sit there and pave the parking
lots from the fire department and the
side of the the town hall all the way
from all the way to the other side of
the school and the school parking lot.
It's something that we have to bring up
to CIP and get done. My question to him
was, why are we doing the curbs when we
really need to be doing more substantial
work to the parking lots? It's one of
those projects that we need to sit there
and put on the agenda to get done. Um, I
understand why he was doing it. He had
some requests because of some water
flow. Um,
but if he's going to be doing the town
parking lot, he needs to also do the uh
the school parking lot and repair the
curbs at the school. So, that will be
happening uh during the summer uh
because the contractor that does the
curbing uh comes has has um Eric has a
uh contract with him to come back and
give time to the town and do certain
projects as they uh have availability.
So, the school parking lot will be
getting done. Um
>> paving or just the curbing?
>> Just the curbing. So, I I mean, it's
honestly wasted money, which is what I
told Eric. I'm like, why did we do that
now if we were, you know, if we really
should be thinking longer term and
living with some uh problems before, but
he got started with it. He's doing it.
Um,
>> was brand new, Jeff. It got destroyed
this past winter with the backo, and it
looks a lot better with the Kirby fixed.
>> Yeah. I mean, he hit it plow. They hit
it plowing,
>> which is what we have to sit there and
deal with. They can't be doing that
while they're plowing.
>> No. And they had stakes up everywhere,
too.
>> Yeah. Um Okay. So, uh he's he's doing um
shimming. He's he's working down the
roads that he's, you know, put us he had
some tree removal done. I guess there
was a a tree that fell on the long hill
bridge site
and he had to sit there and have that
removed. And then Distinctive went uh
and got that tree done so that the
construction pro project would work
would continue to work and then um they
were doing some work on towns and uh
that he had them continue to do. So
>> doing their cash pages on ridge and
they're going to finish paving it in
September.
>> Yeah. Um Eric uh for those of you who
don't know had a little foot injury.
He's doing better. He's going to be uh
out of the
um
his uh you know he's walking around with
I don't even remember what you call him
now. I'm having a senior moment. Um
>> he's in a boot.
>> He's in a boot. But what do you what do
you walk around on those when you're
doing crutches? He's got his crutches
going. So he's he's going to be off his
crutches in in another uh another week.
He's got to get into the walking boot,
but he's doing okay. Uh page 99 has the
pictures of the bridge the bridge ends
that were taken off. Um that was a
combined effort between um George, the
new the gentleman at uh public works
who's a um a mason. Um and so that was
requested to potentially save from the
bridge to use for a a chair that
potentially Scott is going to champion
and get done at the Long Hill Field. So,
okay,
what else we got? Um
he's also got what he's doing with his
shimmying and his ship ceiling.
And then we have page one uh 101 which
is the library report and 102 which was
the library report. And that's the end
of our uh departmental reports. Does
anybody have anything they'd like to
bring up about any of the other
departments within town?
No. Okay. We're going to move on to item
14, correspondence. I don't believe we
have any. And we're going to move on to
item 15, public speak.
Okay. Um,
public speak. Justin Burl.
Yeah. I just want to thank you guys for
giving us an opportunity to speak
tonight about the Andover youth
basketball and giving us a a forum to at
least discuss uh the proposed changes.
Uh, I look forward to being able to
engage in that and uh, kind of come to
some kind of agreement on that. So, I
thank you for that.
>> Okay. Um, Eric Latesca.
>> Yeah, well said, Justin. I agree. Second
all of it. And then I don't know, uh,
Jeff, your suggestion about maybe
arranging time and place for more
discussion. U, you know, if we want to
do that before we hang up, I'm I'm here
for that, too.
>> Okay. Uh, we'll do that tomorrow, Eric,
and I'll sit there and get with Carol.
Carol needs to lead that charge and
we'll go from there.
>> Okay.
>> Uh Diane Grer.
>> Yes. Thank you. Um once again, excuse
me. I've said [clears throat] it before.
I've said it often. Um can't say it
enough. I'm always impressed at your
agenda and all the different items that
you guys um discuss and are well
knowledgeable on and taken care of for
us. And um I thank you for that. Like I
say, I'm always very impressed. I also
like um to wish uh Willie Bell and
Dominic well. Um sorry to see them both
going. I think they both did a great job
and um again uh they will be be missed.
And on the other topic, the town hall
code of conduct conduct. You got to be
kidding. I can't believe that that has
to come forward and tell people to use
their good manners when they're in
public. Um,
it does just blows my mind. Um, sorry
that you guys have to deal with that
sort of nonsense. Um, but I I wish you
well and sorry to hear that the town
office personnel is having to deal with
that those issues. So that's it. Thank
you very much for all you do.
>> All right. Um, Meg.
>> Hi. Um, can you hear me? Okay. I'm on my
earbuds. Just wanted to check. Okay.
Thank you. Um, yeah. I just wanted to
speak to the basketball program issue as
well. I think, you know, the way that
families are finding out about this
decision is just not right. Um, you
know, it's our understanding that
coaches attending that RAM travel
meeting were kind of blindsided with
this information and then that kind of,
you know, spread through the the school
community. Um, I previously was on the
recreation commission and I stepped down
in large part because I felt there was
not transparency on the commission. The
meetings aren't recorded. the agendas
aren't posted. The minutes aren't
posted. Um, so I mean, yes, people can
show up, but people aren't just going to
randomly show up once a month not
knowing what's on the meeting. And I
just don't think um, you know, this was
the right way to go about things. And I
would really like to see um, greater
transparency going forward and to have
agendas and minutes posted and to have
those uh, meetings available to the
community via Zoom so that you know
something like this doesn't happen
again.
Right.
>> Thank you, Bill Penn.
Uh thanks all. I I understand your uh
back burnering the Percy Cook Trail uh
stuff. Uh the only thing I know talking
to uh the deep about that that grant
there are some specific timelines in
there that are tied into that. So just
need to pay attention to that as we're
you know I realize there are more
important there are other important
things but just need to be aware of some
of the timelines that may be implicit in
that grant proposal. Again, thank you
everybody for your time and uh
commitment to hopefully making Andover
better. Thank you.
>> Hey Jeff, I just want to back uh I just
want to back on to Bill's comment there.
Um I just want to uh say thank you to
Marcy and Jeff Miner for mowing that
entrance from the pond to the Percy Cook
Trail because before you couldn't get
access during school hours so people can
park there and get access to all that
property in the back. um he went out
with his uh brush mower and he cleared
it. I've done it a few times myself. I
know what a job it is, but I just I we
didn't do it during the meeting, but I
just wanted to uh thank both of them for
doing that for the town and and getting
that trail cleared again.
>> Okay. Uh Brienne Lanziri,
>> nothing more at this time.
>> Okay. Liz Latch,
>> I think you're all set. Uh Joan Heert,
>> real quick, my only comment was about
the $20,000 that was paid for attorney's
fees with the NECOG situation. So, I'm
glad to hear that someone's going to
look out and talk to them about
contacting the town a little bit more
before they go so far into the lawsuits
or whatever happened with that
situation. Thank you.
uh test graphs.
>> Um yeah, I just wanted to just share one
last thing um about this whole decision.
I I I wanted to just ask uh the three
members of the board that chose to
wrongfully terminate me back in April.
Um I I wanted I I want to ask what was
your plan then and what was your plan
now?
um we're still waiting for an assistant
for the director and um and now and now
you have a director that you're going to
be um looking for a job for. So I'm I'm
wondering what your plan was. Uh you're
you're wanting to do what's best for the
town, but you're really not doing the
best for the seniors. And so they are
the ones that um are going to be uh
without. They're the ones that's going
to get hit the hardest. And so I I I
just um I just really feel bad for the
seniors because they've been uprooted so
many times. There's no stability and um
>> yeah, that's it.
>> Okay. Thank you, [clears throat] Luis
Goodwin.
>> No, I'm all set. Thank you.
>> I got Leanne Hutchinson.
>> I'm all set.
>> All right. Kimberly Haw
and Kim, I know you've been having some
problems, but if you can unmute, you
have the last word.
Okay.
Uh, if I can't get Kimberly to get off
mute, is there anyone that I missed?
Okay, I don't think I have a second page
anymore. So, I think this is it. Um,
Kim, you ready? One, two, three.
>> All right. Um, I'll make a motion to
adjurnn.
>> Second.
>> And Ker seconded. Um, all those in
favor? I nothing vote. All right. Thank
you very much. I appreciate everyone's
time.